Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

Windows-specific
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These questions are specific to Windows and not relevant to users on other operating systems.

youtube-dl is extremely slow to start on Windows
------------------------------------------------

Add a file exclusion for ``youtube-dl.exe`` in Windows Defender
settings.

The exe throws an error due to missing ``MSVCR100.dll``
-------------------------------------------------------

To run the exe you need to install first the `Microsoft Visual C++ 2010
Redistributable Package
(x86) <https://www.microsoft.com/en-US/download/details.aspx?id=5555>`__.

On Windows, how should I set up ffmpeg and youtube-dl? Where should I put the exe files?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you put youtube-dl and ffmpeg in the same directory that you're
running the command from, it will work, but that's rather cumbersome.

To make a different directory work - either for ffmpeg, or for
youtube-dl, or for both - simply create the directory (say, ``C:\bin``,
or ``C:\Users\<User name>\bin``), put all the executables directly in
there, and then `set your PATH environment
variable <https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml>`__ to include
that directory.

From then on, after restarting your shell, you will be able to access
both youtube-dl and ffmpeg (and youtube-dl will be able to find ffmpeg)
by simply typing ``youtube-dl`` or ``ffmpeg``, no matter what directory
you're in.

Command Line Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section is related to questions about (and issues related to) command line options.

I'm getting an error when trying to use output template: ``error: using output template conflicts with using title, video ID or auto number``
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure you are not using ``-o`` with any of these options ``-t``,
``--title``, ``--id``, ``-A`` or ``--auto-number`` set in command line
or in a configuration file. Remove the latter if any.

Do I always have to pass ``-citw``?
-----------------------------------

By default, youtube-dl intends to have the best options (incidentally,
if you have a convincing case that these should be different, `please
file an issue where you explain that <https://yt-dl.org/bug>`__).
Therefore, it is unnecessary and sometimes harmful to copy long option
strings from webpages. In particular, the only option out of ``-citw``
that is regularly useful is ``-i``.

I extracted a video URL with ``-g``, but it does not play on another machine / in my web browser.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It depends a lot on the service. In many cases, requests for the video
(to download/play it) must come from the same IP address and with the
same cookies and/or HTTP headers. Use the ``--cookies`` option to write
the required cookies into a file, and advise your downloader to read
cookies from that file. Some sites also require a common user agent to
be used, use ``--dump-user-agent`` to see the one in use by youtube-dl.
You can also get necessary cookies and HTTP headers from JSON output
obtained with ``--dump-json``.

It may be beneficial to use IPv6; in some cases, the restrictions are
only applied to IPv4. Some services (sometimes only for a subset of
videos) do not restrict the video URL by IP address, cookie, or
user-agent, but these are the exception rather than the rule.

Please bear in mind that some URL protocols are **not** supported by
browsers out of the box, including RTMP. If you are using ``-g``, your
own downloader must support these as well.

If you want to play the video on a machine that is not running
youtube-dl, you can relay the video content from the machine that runs
youtube-dl. You can use ``-o -`` to let youtube-dl stream a video to
stdout, or simply allow the player to download the files written by
youtube-dl in turn.

Video URL contains an ampersand and I'm getting some strange output ``[1] 2839`` or ``'v' is not recognized as an internal or external command``
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That's actually the output from your shell. Since ampersand is one of
the special shell characters it's interpreted by the shell preventing
you from passing the whole URL to youtube-dl. To disable your shell from
interpreting the ampersands (or any other special characters) you have
to either put the whole URL in quotes or escape them with a backslash
(which approach will work depends on your shell).

For example if your URL is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=4&v=BaW\_jenozKc you should end up with
following command:

``youtube-dl 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=4&v=BaW_jenozKc'``

or

``youtube-dl https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=4\&v=BaW_jenozKc``

For Windows you have to use the double quotes:

``youtube-dl "https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=4&v=BaW_jenozKc"``

Should I add ``--hls-prefer-native`` into my config?
----------------------------------------------------

When youtube-dl detects an HLS video, it can download it either with the
built-in downloader or ffmpeg. Since many HLS streams are slightly
invalid and ffmpeg/youtube-dl each handle some invalid cases better than
the other, there is an option to switch the downloader if needed.

When youtube-dl knows that one particular downloader works better for a
given website, that downloader will be picked. Otherwise, youtube-dl
will pick the best downloader for general compatibility, which at the
moment happens to be ffmpeg. This choice may change in future versions
of youtube-dl, with improvements of the built-in downloader and/or
ffmpeg.

In particular, the generic extractor (used when your website is not in
the `list of supported sites by
youtube-dl <https://ytdl-org.github.io/youtube-dl/supportedsites.html>`__
cannot mandate one specific downloader.

If you put either ``--hls-prefer-native`` or ``--hls-prefer-ffmpeg``
into your configuration, a different subset of videos will fail to
download correctly. Instead, it is much better to `file an
issue <https://yt-dl.org/bug>`__ or a pull request which details why the
native or the ffmpeg HLS downloader is a better choice for your use
case.

Do I need any other programs?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

youtube-dl works fine on its own on most sites. However, if you want to
convert video/audio, you'll need `avconv <https://libav.org/>`__ or
`ffmpeg <https://www.ffmpeg.org/>`__. On some sites - most notably
YouTube - videos can be retrieved in a higher quality format without
sound. youtube-dl will detect whether avconv/ffmpeg is present and
automatically pick the best option.

Videos or video formats streamed via RTMP protocol can only be
downloaded when `rtmpdump <https://rtmpdump.mplayerhq.hu/>`__ is
installed. Downloading MMS and RTSP videos requires either
`mplayer <https://mplayerhq.hu/>`__ or `mpv <https://mpv.io/>`__ to be
installed.

Some websites (Openload, PornHub) obfuscate video URL's using JavaScript, so
PhantomJS is necessary to download videos from them.

HTTP Error 429: Too Many Requests or 402: Payment Required
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These two error codes indicate that the service is blocking your IP
address because of overuse. Contact the service and ask them to unblock
your IP address, or - if you have acquired a whitelisted IP address
already - use the ```--proxy`` or ``--source-address``
options <#network-options>`__ to select another IP address.

SyntaxError: Non-ASCII character
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The error

::

    File "youtube-dl", line 2
    SyntaxError: Non-ASCII character '\x93' ...

means you're using an outdated version of Python. Please update to
Python 2.6 or 2.7.

What is this binary file? Where has the code gone?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since June 2012
(`#342 <https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl/issues/342>`__)
youtube-dl is packed as an executable zipfile, simply unzip it (might
need renaming to ``youtube-dl.zip`` first on some systems) or clone the
git repository, as laid out above. If you modify the code, you can run
it by executing the ``__main__.py`` file. To recompile the executable,
run ``make youtube-dl``.

How do I...
~~~~~~~~~~~

Questions asking about the proper way to do something.

How do I put downloads into a specific folder?
----------------------------------------------

Use the ``-o`` to specify an `output template <#output-template>`__, for
example ``-o "/home/user/videos/%(title)s-%(id)s.%(ext)s"``. If you want
this for all of your downloads, put the option into your `configuration
file <#configuration>`__.

How do I download a video starting with a ``-``?
------------------------------------------------

Either prepend ``https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=`` or separate the ID
from the options with ``--``:

::

    youtube-dl -- -wNyEUrxzFU
    youtube-dl "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wNyEUrxzFU"

How do I pass cookies to youtube-dl?
------------------------------------

Use the ``--cookies`` option, for example
``--cookies /path/to/cookies/file.txt``.

In order to extract cookies from browser use any conforming browser
extension for exporting cookies. For example,
`cookies.txt <https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cookiestxt/njabckikapfpffapmjgojcnbfjonfjfg>`__
(for Chrome) or
`cookies.txt <https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/cookies-txt/>`__
(for Firefox).

Note that the cookies file must be in Mozilla/Netscape format and the
first line of the cookies file must be either ``# HTTP Cookie File`` or
``# Netscape HTTP Cookie File``. Make sure you have correct `newline
format <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline>`__ in the cookies file
and convert newlines if necessary to correspond with your OS, namely
``CRLF`` (``\r\n``) for Windows and ``LF`` (``\n``) for Unix and
Unix-like systems (Linux, macOS, etc.). ``HTTP Error 400: Bad Request``
when using ``--cookies`` is a good sign of invalid newline format.

Passing cookies to youtube-dl is a good way to workaround login when a
particular extractor does not implement it explicitly. Another use case
is working around `CAPTCHA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAPTCHA>`__
some websites require you to solve in particular cases in order to get
access (e.g. YouTube, CloudFlare).

How do I stream directly to media player?
-----------------------------------------

You will first need to tell youtube-dl to stream media to stdout with
``-o -``, and also tell your media player to read from stdin (it must be
capable of this for streaming) and then pipe former to latter. For
example, streaming to `vlc <https://www.videolan.org/>`__ can be
achieved with:

::

    youtube-dl -o - "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BaW_jenozKcj" | vlc -

How do I download only new videos from a playlist?
--------------------------------------------------

Use download-archive feature. With this feature you should initially
download the complete playlist with
``--download-archive /path/to/download/archive/file.txt`` that will
record identifiers of all the videos in a special file. Each subsequent
run with the same ``--download-archive`` will download only new videos
and skip all videos that have been downloaded before. Note that only
successful downloads are recorded in the file.

For example, at first,

::

    youtube-dl --download-archive archive.txt "https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwiyx1dc3P2JR9N8gQaQN_BCvlSlap7re"

will download the complete ``PLwiyx1dc3P2JR9N8gQaQN_BCvlSlap7re``
playlist and create a file ``archive.txt``. Each subsequent run will
only download new videos if any:

::

    youtube-dl --download-archive archive.txt "https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwiyx1dc3P2JR9N8gQaQN_BCvlSlap7re"

Can you add support for this anime video site, or site which shows current movies for free?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As a matter of policy (as well as legality), youtube-dl does not include
support for services that specialize in infringing copyright. As a rule
of thumb, if you cannot easily find a video that the service is quite
obviously allowed to distribute (i.e. that has been uploaded by the
creator, the creator's distributor, or is published under a free
license), the service is probably unfit for inclusion to youtube-dl.

A note on the service that they don't host the infringing content, but
just link to those who do, is evidence that the service should **not**
be included into youtube-dl. The same goes for any DMCA note when the
whole front page of the service is filled with videos they are not
allowed to distribute. A "fair use" note is equally unconvincing if the
service shows copyright-protected videos in full without authorization.

Support requests for services that **do** purchase the rights to
distribute their content are perfectly fine though. If in doubt, you can
simply include a source that mentions the legitimate purchase of
content.

How can I speed up work on my issue?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(Also known as: Help, my important issue not being solved!) The
youtube-dl core developer team is quite small. While we do our best to
solve as many issues as possible, sometimes that can take quite a while.
To speed up your issue, here's what you can do:

First of all, please do report the issue `at our issue
tracker <https://yt-dl.org/bugs>`__. That allows us to coordinate all
efforts by users and developers, and serves as a unified point.
Unfortunately, the youtube-dl project has grown too large to use
personal email as an effective communication channel.

Please read the `bug reporting instructions <#bugs>`__ below. A lot of
bugs lack all the necessary information. If you can, offer proxy, VPN,
or shell access to the youtube-dl developers. If you are able to, test
the issue from multiple computers in multiple countries to exclude local
censorship or misconfiguration issues.

If nobody is interested in solving your issue, you are welcome to take
matters into your own hands and submit a pull request (or coerce/pay
somebody else to do so).

Feel free to bump the issue from time to time by writing a small comment
("Issue is still present in youtube-dl version ...from France, but fixed
from Belgium"), but please not more than once a month. Please do not
declare your issue as ``important`` or ``urgent``.

How can I detect whether a given URL is supported by youtube-dl?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For one, have a look at the `list of supported
sites <docs/supportedsites.md>`__. Note that it can sometimes happen
that the site changes its URL scheme (say, from
https://example.com/video/1234567 to https://example.com/v/1234567 ) and
youtube-dl reports an URL of a service in that list as unsupported. In
that case, simply report a bug.

It is *not* possible to detect whether a URL is supported or not. That's
because youtube-dl contains a generic extractor which matches **all**
URLs. You may be tempted to disable, exclude, or remove the generic
extractor, but the generic extractor not only allows users to extract
videos from lots of websites that embed a video from another service,
but may also be used to extract video from a service that it's hosting
itself. Therefore, we neither recommend nor support disabling,
excluding, or removing the generic extractor.

If you want to find out whether a given URL is supported, simply call
youtube-dl with it. If you get no videos back, chances are the URL is
either not referring to a video or unsupported. You can find out which
by examining the output (if you run youtube-dl on the console) or
catching an ``UnsupportedError`` exception if you run it from a Python
program.

Why do I need to go through that much red tape when filing bugs?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before we had the issue template, despite our extensive `bug reporting
instructions <#bugs>`__, about 80% of the issue reports we got were
useless, for instance because people used ancient versions hundreds of
releases old, because of simple syntactic errors (not in youtube-dl but
in general shell usage), because the problem was already reported
multiple times before, because people did not actually read an error
message, even if it said "please install ffmpeg", because people did not
mention the URL they were trying to download and many more simple,
easy-to-avoid problems, many of whom were totally unrelated to
youtube-dl.

youtube-dl is an open-source project manned by too few volunteers, so
we'd rather spend time fixing bugs where we are certain none of those
simple problems apply, and where we can be reasonably confident to be
able to reproduce the issue without asking the reporter repeatedly. As
such, the output of ``youtube-dl -v YOUR_URL_HERE`` is really all that's
required to file an issue. The issue template also guides you through
some basic steps you can do, such as checking that your version of
youtube-dl is current.